CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing

Hi there! We're delighted that you'd like to contribute to this project.
It has been generous collaboration from many people all over the world
that has made it possible so far, and your help is key to keeping it
great.

Contributions to this project are [released][contributions-released]
to the public under the [project's open source license](#licenses).

This project adheres to the
[Contributor Covenant Code of Conduct][covenant].
By participating, you are expected to uphold this code.

## Getting started

Before you can start contributing to Beat Link, you'll need to set up
your environment first. Fork and clone the repo and install
[Maven][maven] to install the project dependencies and manage builds.
We find [IntelliJ IDEA][idea] (even the free Community Edition) an
incredibly productive environment for Java work, but use whatever IDE
or editor works best for you (we always have [GNU Emacs][emacs] open
too).

For testing you are going to want some Pro DJ Link hardware on your
network, and a wired network is necessary for realistic performance.
If you will be trying to analyze the protocols, you will probably want
to invest in an inexpensive managed switch, to let you span (mirror)
ports, so you can listen in on the traffic players and mixers send
between themselves. The [Netgear GS105Ev2][switch] has worked great
for us.

## Giving back

Once you have something working you’d like to share, you can open a
[pull request][pulls].

Or if you simply have an idea, or something that you wish worked
differently, feel free to open an [issue][issues] if it seems like
nobody already has.

## Maintainers

Crate Digger is primarily maintained by [@brunchboy][brunchboy].

## Licenses

<a href="http://deepsymmetry.org"><img src="doc/assets/DS-logo-github.png"
      align="right" alt="Deep Symmetry logo" width="250" height="150"></a>
Copyright © 2018–2022 [Deep Symmetry, LLC](http://deepsymmetry.org)

Distributed under the [Eclipse Public License
2.0](https://opensource.org/licenses/EPL-2.0). By using this software
in any fashion, you are agreeing to be bound by the terms of this
license. You must not remove this notice, or any other, from this
software.

Secondary Licenses: This Source Code may also be made available under
the following Secondary Licenses when the conditions for such
availability set forth in the Eclipse Public License, v. 2.0 are
satisfied: [Mozilla Public License
2.0](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/MPL/2.0/), or [GNU Lesser General
Public License v. 3](https://opensource.org/licenses/LGPL-3.0).

[contributions-released]: https://help.github.com/articles/github-terms-of-service/#6-contributions-under-repository-license
[covenant]: http://contributor-covenant.org/
[maven]: https://maven.apache.org
[idea]: https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/
[emacs]: https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/
[switch]: https://smile.amazon.com/gp/product/B00HGLVZLY/
[pulls]: https://github.com/Deep-Symmetry/crate-digger/pulls
[issues]: https://github.com/Deep-Symmetry/crate-digger/issues
[brunchboy]: https://github.com/brunchboy

Commit message:

Update chat links to the specific dysentery stream.

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing

Hi there! We're delighted that you'd like to contribute to this project.
It has been generous collaboration from many people all over the world
that has made it possible so far, and your help is key to keeping it
great.

Contributions to this project are [released][contributions-released]
to the public under the [project's open source license](#licenses).

This project adheres to the
[Contributor Covenant Code of Conduct][covenant].
By participating, you are expected to uphold this code.

## Getting started

Before you can start contributing to Beat Link, you'll need to set up
your environment first. Fork and clone the repo and install
[Maven][maven] to install the project dependencies and manage builds.
We find [IntelliJ IDEA][idea] (even the free Community Edition) an
incredibly productive environment for Java work, but use whatever IDE
or editor works best for you (we always have [GNU Emacs][emacs] open
too).

For testing you are going to want some Pro DJ Link hardware on your
network, and a wired network is necessary for realistic performance.
If you will be trying to analyze the protocols, you will probably want
to invest in an inexpensive managed switch, to let you span (mirror)
ports, so you can listen in on the traffic players and mixers send
between themselves. The [Netgear GS105Ev2][switch] has worked great
for us.

## Giving back

The most informal and fun way to get involved in the project is to
introduce yourself and start chatting on the
https://deep-symmetry.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/275855-dysentery-.26-crate-digger[Zulip
stream].

Once you have something working you’d like to share, you can open a
[pull request][pulls].

Or if you simply have an idea, or something that you wish worked
differently, feel free to open an [issue][issues] if it seems like
nobody already has.

## Maintainers

Crate Digger is primarily maintained by [@brunchboy][brunchboy].

## Licenses

<a href="http://deepsymmetry.org"><img src="doc/assets/DS-logo-github.png"
      align="right" alt="Deep Symmetry logo" width="250" height="150"></a>
Copyright © 2018–2022 [Deep Symmetry, LLC](http://deepsymmetry.org)

Distributed under the [Eclipse Public License
2.0](https://opensource.org/licenses/EPL-2.0). By using this software
in any fashion, you are agreeing to be bound by the terms of this
license. You must not remove this notice, or any other, from this
software.

Secondary Licenses: This Source Code may also be made available under
the following Secondary Licenses when the conditions for such
availability set forth in the Eclipse Public License, v. 2.0 are
satisfied: [Mozilla Public License
2.0](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/MPL/2.0/), or [GNU Lesser General
Public License v. 3](https://opensource.org/licenses/LGPL-3.0).

[contributions-released]: https://help.github.com/articles/github-terms-of-service/#6-contributions-under-repository-license
[covenant]: http://contributor-covenant.org/
[maven]: https://maven.apache.org
[idea]: https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/
[emacs]: https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/
[switch]: https://smile.amazon.com/gp/product/B00HGLVZLY/
[pulls]: https://github.com/Deep-Symmetry/crate-digger/pulls
[issues]: https://github.com/Deep-Symmetry/crate-digger/issues
[brunchboy]: https://github.com/brunchboy
