README.adoc, before:

= Crate Digger
James Elliott <james@deepsymmetry.org>
:icons: font
:experimental:

// Set up support for relative links on GitHub, and give it
// usable icons for admonitions, w00t! Add more conditions
// if you need to support other environments and extensions.
ifdef::env-github[]
:outfilesuffix: .adoc
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:note-caption: :information_source:
:important-caption: :heavy_exclamation_mark:
:caution-caption: :fire:
:warning-caption: :warning:
endif::env-github[]

A Java library for fetching and parsing rekordbox media exports and
track analysis files.

image:https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Eclipse%20Public%20License%201.0-blue.svg[link="#license"]

This project uses the http://kaitai.io[Kaitai Struct] compiler with
the help of a https://github.com/valery1707/kaitai-maven-plugin[Maven
plugin] to create classes that can parse and output binary data
structures in a convenient and efficient way. It uses them to create
Java classes, because it was created to support
https://github.com/Deep-Symmetry/beat-link[Beat Link], but other
projects can use them to output code for other languages.

It also uses the `jrpcgen` tool (which is part of the
https://sourceforge.net/projects/remotetea/[Remote Tea project]),
via another plugin, to generate classes that know how to talk to the
non-standard NFSv2 file servers running in Link-capable players, so
the rekordbox data can be reliably obtained even during big shows
where all four players are in use.

== PDB Database

The file link:src/main/kaitai/rekordbox_pdb.ksy[`rekordbox_pdb.ksy`] contains
the structure definitions needed to parse exported rekordbox databases
(`export.pdb` files).

NOTE: Huge thanks to https://github.com/flesniak[Fabian Lesniak] for
figuring out the details of how to interpret these files in his
https://github.com/flesniak/python-prodj-link[python-prodj-link]
project and https://github.com/GreyCat[Mikhail Yakshin] for helping me
quickly learn the more subtle aspects of Kaitai Struct. And this was
all started by a question
https://reverseengineering.stackexchange.com/users/4599/evan-purkhiser[Evan
Purkhiser] posted on
https://reverseengineering.stackexchange.com/questions/4311/help-reversing-a-edb-database-file-for-pioneers-rekordbox-software[Stack
Exchange].

There is a http://deepsymmetry.org/cratedigger/Analysis.pdf[Structure
Analysis] article describing the details of what we have learned about
these file formats. Reading that will help make sense of the
exploration tools and the objects returned by this library.

=== Exploring the Analysis

One of the amazingly cool things about Kaitai Struct is that you can
use its https://ide.kaitai.io/#[Web IDE] to see how the structure
definitions work and visually explore the contents of files you are
analyzing. This also means you can look inside your own `.pdb` files
and check my work, or get a better understanding of how to use the
generated parsers. To do that, simply upload the `.pdb` file you want
to examine to the Web IDE (it doesn't actually go to the web, it just
gets put in your local browser storage), then also upload my
link:src/main/kaitai/rekordbox_pdb.ksy[`rekordbox_pdb.ksy`] file, and
the Web IDE will parse the exported database, letting you explore the
structures in the tree view, and see the corresponding raw bytes in
the hex viewer.

TIP: You can find the `export.pdb` file on a media stick prepared by
rekordbox inside the `PIONEER` folder, which may be invisible in the
Finder, but you can open it using Terminal commands if you have to. To
download my
link:src/main/kaitai/rekordbox_pdb.ksy[`rekordbox_pdb.ksy`], click on
its link, then click on the `Raw` button in the header above the first
line of the listing, then tell your browser to save it to disk. Be
sure to keep the `.ksy` extension. Then you can upload it to the
Kaitai Struct Web IDE.


== ANLZ Data

Each track in a rekordbox database also has `ANLZnnnn.DAT` and
`ANLZnnnn.EXT` files associated with it, containing the beat grid, an
index allowing rapid seeking to any time in variable-bit rate audio
files, the waveforms, memory cues and loop points. The paths to these
files are found inside the corresponding track record.

The structure definitions for these files are in
link:src/main/kaitai/rekordbox_anlz.ksy[`rekordbox_anlz.ksy`]. You can
use it with the Kaitai Struct Web IDE as described
<<exploring-the-analysis,above>> to explore analysis files found in
your own exported media.

== Using the Library

Crate Digger is available through Maven Central, so to use it in your
Maven project, all you need is to include the appropriate dependency.

+++<a href="https://maven-badges.herokuapp.com/maven-central/org.deepsymmetry/crate-digger"><img
 src="https://maven-badges.herokuapp.com/maven-central/org.deepsymmetry/crate-digger/badge.svg"
  alt="Maven Central"></a>+++

Click the **maven central** badge above to view the repository entry
for crate-digger. The proper format for including the latest release as a
dependency in a variety of tools, including Leiningen if you are using
beat-link from Clojure, can be found in the **Dependency Information**
section.

There are two halves to what Crate Digger offers. The first is an
ability to talk to the nonstandard Network File System servers that
are running in Pioneer players, and ask them to deliver the rekordbox
data export and track analysis files (programs like Beat Link
need these files to provide smooth integrations with the music being
performed). The second half is the ability to parse the contents of
those files, as described above.

=== Retreiving Files

The class `org.deepsymmetry.cratedigger.FileFetcher` is a singleton,
so to work with it you will start by calling `getInstance()`, as is
customary. Retrieving a file is then as simple as this:

[source,java]
----
FileFetcher fetcher = FileFetcher.getInstance();
fetcher.fetch(playerAddress, mountPath, sourcePath, destination);
----

`playerAddress` is an `InetAddress` object holding the address of the
player from which you want to download a file. `mountPath` identifies
the media slot you want to get information from, as shown in the table
below. `sourcePath` is the path to the specific file you want within
the mounted media, and `destination` is a `File` object identifying
where you want the downloaded data to be stored.

.Media Slot Mount Paths
|===
|Media Slot | Mount Path
|SD
|`/B/`

|USB
|`/C/`
|===

[IMPORTANT]
====
The `FileFetcher` caches information about players to make
requests more efficient, so it is important for you to tell it when a
player goes away, or unmounts one of its media slots, by calling:

[source,java]
----
fetcher.removePlayer(playerAddress);
----
====

=== Parsing Structures

The class `org.deepsymmetry.cratedigger.Database` provides support for
accessing the contents of rekordbox database export files. You can create
an instance to wrap a `File` instance that contains such an export (for
example one that you downloaded using the `fetch` method above). Then
you can query it for track and other information:

[source,java]
----
Database database = new Database(downloadedFile);
RekordboxPdb.TrackRow track = database.findTrack(1);
System.out.println(database.getText(track.title()));
----

Strings (like titles, artist names, etc.) are represented by a variety
of structures with different encodings, so a `getText()` method is
provided to convert them into ordinary Java strings.

See the http://deepsymmetry.org/cratedigger/apidocs/[API documentation]
for more details about these classes, and the
link:doc/Analysis.pdf[Structure Analysis] for more details about the
file formats.

== Logging

Crate Digger uses http://www.slf4j.org/manual.html[slf4j] to allow you
to integrate it with whatever Java logging framework your project is
using, so you will need to include the appropriate slf4j binding on
your class path.

== Unfinished Tasks

* A document explaining the structures with diagrams, along the lines
of the Dysentery Packet Analysis, will be part of this project as well.

* There are still more tables to be figured out. `Columns` looks like
the list of things that can be searched by, so perhaps it will hold
some clues for how to find and use the index tables, which must exist
because it would be horribly slow for the players to do a linear scan
through the main sparse tables whenever they wanted a record.

* If we could figure out how to use the indices ourselves, we could
avoid having to load the whole file and index it ourselves.

== Building the source

As noted above, he Maven project uses a plugin to run the the
`jrpcgen` tool (which is part of the
https://sourceforge.net/projects/remotetea/[Remote Tea
project]) to generate Java classes to implement the
ONC RPC specifications found in `src/main/rpc`.
(These are used for communicating with the NFS servers
in CDJs.) It also uses the http://kaitai.io[Kaitai Struct Compiler]
through another plugin to generate Java classes that can parse the
rekordbox databases it downloads from the players, based on the
specifications found in `src/main/kaitai`.

These things happen for you automatically during the code generation
phase of the Maven build. If you want to use something other than
Maven, you will need to figure out how to configure and run the
tools yourself.

== Contributing

If you have ideas, discoveries, or even code you’d like to share,
that’s fantastic! Please take a look at the
link:CONTRIBUTING.md[guidelines] and get in touch!

== Licenses

+++<a href="http://deepsymmetry.org"><img src="doc/assets/DS-logo-bw-200-padded-left.png"
      align="right" alt="Deep Symmetry logo" width="216" height="123"></a>+++
Copyright © 2018–2019 http://deepsymmetry.org[Deep Symmetry, LLC]

Distributed under the
http://opensource.org/licenses/eclipse-1.0.php[Eclipse Public License
1.0]. By using this software in any fashion, you
are agreeing to be bound by the terms of this license. You must not
remove this notice, or any other, from this software. A copy of the
license can be found in link:LICENSE[LICENSE] within this project.

=== Library and Build Tool Licenses

https://sourceforge.net/projects/remotetea/[Remote Tea] is licensed under the
https://opensource.org/licenses/LGPL-2.0[GNU Library General
Public License, version 2].

The https://github.com/kaitai-io/kaitai_struct_compiler[Kaitai Struct
Compiler] is licensed under the
https://opensource.org/licenses/GPL-3.0[GNU General Public License,
version 3] and the Kaitai Java runtime embedded in crate-digger is
licensed under the https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT[MIT License].

Commit message:

Update discussion of analysis document.
Also add section describing how to build it.

README.adoc, after:

= Crate Digger
James Elliott <james@deepsymmetry.org>
:icons: font
:experimental:

// Set up support for relative links on GitHub, and give it
// usable icons for admonitions, w00t! Add more conditions
// if you need to support other environments and extensions.
ifdef::env-github[]
:outfilesuffix: .adoc
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:note-caption: :information_source:
:important-caption: :heavy_exclamation_mark:
:caution-caption: :fire:
:warning-caption: :warning:
endif::env-github[]

A Java library for fetching and parsing rekordbox media exports and
track analysis files.

image:https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Eclipse%20Public%20License%201.0-blue.svg[link="#license"]

This project uses the http://kaitai.io[Kaitai Struct] compiler with
the help of a https://github.com/valery1707/kaitai-maven-plugin[Maven
plugin] to create classes that can parse and output binary data
structures in a convenient and efficient way. It uses them to create
Java classes, because it was created to support
https://github.com/Deep-Symmetry/beat-link[Beat Link], but other
projects can use them to output code for other languages.

It also uses the `jrpcgen` tool (which is part of the
https://sourceforge.net/projects/remotetea/[Remote Tea project]),
via another plugin, to generate classes that know how to talk to the
non-standard NFSv2 file servers running in Link-capable players, so
the rekordbox data can be reliably obtained even during big shows
where all four players are in use.

== PDB Database

The file link:src/main/kaitai/rekordbox_pdb.ksy[`rekordbox_pdb.ksy`] contains
the structure definitions needed to parse exported rekordbox databases
(`export.pdb` files).

NOTE: Huge thanks to https://github.com/flesniak[Fabian Lesniak] for
figuring out the details of how to interpret these files in his
https://github.com/flesniak/python-prodj-link[python-prodj-link]
project and https://github.com/GreyCat[Mikhail Yakshin] for helping me
quickly learn the more subtle aspects of Kaitai Struct. And this was
all started by a question
https://reverseengineering.stackexchange.com/users/4599/evan-purkhiser[Evan
Purkhiser] posted on
https://reverseengineering.stackexchange.com/questions/4311/help-reversing-a-edb-database-file-for-pioneers-rekordbox-software[Stack
Exchange].

There is a http://deepsymmetry.org/cratedigger/Analysis.pdf[Structure
Analysis] article describing the details of what we have learned about
these file formats. Reading that will help make sense of the
exploration tools and the objects returned by this library.

=== Exploring the Analysis

One of the amazingly cool things about Kaitai Struct is that you can
use its https://ide.kaitai.io/#[Web IDE] to see how the structure
definitions work and visually explore the contents of files you are
analyzing. This also means you can look inside your own `.pdb` files
and check my work, or get a better understanding of how to use the
generated parsers. To do that, simply upload the `.pdb` file you want
to examine to the Web IDE (it doesn't actually go to the web, it just
gets put in your local browser storage), then also upload my
link:src/main/kaitai/rekordbox_pdb.ksy[`rekordbox_pdb.ksy`] file, and
the Web IDE will parse the exported database, letting you explore the
structures in the tree view, and see the corresponding raw bytes in
the hex viewer.

TIP: You can find the `export.pdb` file on a media stick prepared by
rekordbox inside the `PIONEER` folder, which may be invisible in the
Finder, but you can open it using Terminal commands if you have to. To
download my
link:src/main/kaitai/rekordbox_pdb.ksy[`rekordbox_pdb.ksy`], click on
its link, then click on the `Raw` button in the header above the first
line of the listing, then tell your browser to save it to disk. Be
sure to keep the `.ksy` extension. Then you can upload it to the
Kaitai Struct Web IDE.


== ANLZ Data

Each track in a rekordbox database also has `ANLZnnnn.DAT` and
`ANLZnnnn.EXT` files associated with it, containing the beat grid, an
index allowing rapid seeking to any time in variable-bit rate audio
files, the waveforms, memory cues and loop points. The paths to these
files are found inside the corresponding track record.

The structure definitions for these files are in
link:src/main/kaitai/rekordbox_anlz.ksy[`rekordbox_anlz.ksy`]. You can
use it with the Kaitai Struct Web IDE as described
<<exploring-the-analysis,above>> to explore analysis files found in
your own exported media.

== Using the Library

Crate Digger is available through Maven Central, so to use it in your
Maven project, all you need is to include the appropriate dependency.

+++<a href="https://maven-badges.herokuapp.com/maven-central/org.deepsymmetry/crate-digger"><img
 src="https://maven-badges.herokuapp.com/maven-central/org.deepsymmetry/crate-digger/badge.svg"
  alt="Maven Central"></a>+++

Click the **maven central** badge above to view the repository entry
for crate-digger. The proper format for including the latest release as a
dependency in a variety of tools, including Leiningen if you are using
beat-link from Clojure, can be found in the **Dependency Information**
section.

There are two halves to what Crate Digger offers. The first is an
ability to talk to the nonstandard Network File System servers that
are running in Pioneer players, and ask them to deliver the rekordbox
data export and track analysis files (programs like Beat Link
need these files to provide smooth integrations with the music being
performed). The second half is the ability to parse the contents of
those files, as described above.

=== Retreiving Files

The class `org.deepsymmetry.cratedigger.FileFetcher` is a singleton,
so to work with it you will start by calling `getInstance()`, as is
customary. Retrieving a file is then as simple as this:

[source,java]
----
FileFetcher fetcher = FileFetcher.getInstance();
fetcher.fetch(playerAddress, mountPath, sourcePath, destination);
----

`playerAddress` is an `InetAddress` object holding the address of the
player from which you want to download a file. `mountPath` identifies
the media slot you want to get information from, as shown in the table
below. `sourcePath` is the path to the specific file you want within
the mounted media, and `destination` is a `File` object identifying
where you want the downloaded data to be stored.

.Media Slot Mount Paths
|===
|Media Slot | Mount Path
|SD
|`/B/`

|USB
|`/C/`
|===

[IMPORTANT]
====
The `FileFetcher` caches information about players to make
requests more efficient, so it is important for you to tell it when a
player goes away, or unmounts one of its media slots, by calling:

[source,java]
----
fetcher.removePlayer(playerAddress);
----
====

=== Parsing Structures

The class `org.deepsymmetry.cratedigger.Database` provides support for
accessing the contents of rekordbox database export files. You can create
an instance to wrap a `File` instance that contains such an export (for
example one that you downloaded using the `fetch` method above). Then
you can query it for track and other information:

[source,java]
----
Database database = new Database(downloadedFile);
RekordboxPdb.TrackRow track = database.findTrack(1);
System.out.println(database.getText(track.title()));
----

Strings (like titles, artist names, etc.) are represented by a variety
of structures with different encodings, so a `getText()` method is
provided to convert them into ordinary Java strings.

See the http://deepsymmetry.org/cratedigger/apidocs/[API documentation]
for more details about these classes, and the
link:doc/Analysis.pdf[Structure Analysis] for more details about the
file formats.

== Logging

Crate Digger uses http://www.slf4j.org/manual.html[slf4j] to allow you
to integrate it with whatever Java logging framework your project is
using, so you will need to include the appropriate slf4j binding on
your class path.

== Unfinished Tasks

* There are still more tables to be figured out. `Columns` looks like
the list of things that can be searched by, so perhaps it will hold
some clues for how to find and use the index tables, which must exist
because it would be horribly slow for the players to do a linear scan
through the main sparse tables whenever they wanted a record.

* If we could figure out how to use the indices ourselves, we could
avoid having to load the whole file and index it ourselves.

== Building the source

As noted above, he Maven project uses a plugin to run the the
`jrpcgen` tool (which is part of the
https://sourceforge.net/projects/remotetea/[Remote Tea
project]) to generate Java classes to implement the
ONC RPC specifications found in `src/main/rpc`.
(These are used for communicating with the NFS servers
in CDJs.) It also uses the http://kaitai.io[Kaitai Struct Compiler]
through another plugin to generate Java classes that can parse the
rekordbox databases it downloads from the players, based on the
specifications found in `src/main/kaitai`.

These things happen for you automatically during the code generation
phase of the Maven build. If you want to use something other than
Maven, you will need to figure out how to configure and run the
tools yourself.

== Building the Structure Analysis

The source is found in `doc/Analysis.tex`. I started out using
pdfLaTeX to write and format the document, but then, at the
recommendation of one of the Kaitai Struct developers, switched to
XeLaTeX in order to take advantage of newer fonts, Unicode, and
ligatures. I tried setting up the document preamble so that both
processors will still work, although the line breaks have now been
optimized for XeLaTex, and if you want to use that you will either
need to have the Garamond Premier Pro and Andale Mono font packages
available on your system, or choose different font families that you
actually do own in the `\ifxetex` section at the top.

The easiest way to get all the TeX and LaTeX pieces you need is
probably via [TeX Live](https://www.tug.org/texlive/), which is how I
obtained it when I started working on the protocol analysis document
for dysentery.

== Contributing

If you have ideas, discoveries, or even code you’d like to share,
that’s fantastic! Please take a look at the
link:CONTRIBUTING.md[guidelines] and get in touch!

== Licenses

+++<a href="http://deepsymmetry.org"><img src="doc/assets/DS-logo-bw-200-padded-left.png"
      align="right" alt="Deep Symmetry logo" width="216" height="123"></a>+++
Copyright © 2018–2019 http://deepsymmetry.org[Deep Symmetry, LLC]

Distributed under the
http://opensource.org/licenses/eclipse-1.0.php[Eclipse Public License
1.0]. By using this software in any fashion, you
are agreeing to be bound by the terms of this license. You must not
remove this notice, or any other, from this software. A copy of the
license can be found in link:LICENSE[LICENSE] within this project.

=== Library and Build Tool Licenses

https://sourceforge.net/projects/remotetea/[Remote Tea] is licensed under the
https://opensource.org/licenses/LGPL-2.0[GNU Library General
Public License, version 2].

The https://github.com/kaitai-io/kaitai_struct_compiler[Kaitai Struct
Compiler] is licensed under the
https://opensource.org/licenses/GPL-3.0[GNU General Public License,
version 3] and the Kaitai Java runtime embedded in crate-digger is
licensed under the https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT[MIT License].
